---
layout: post
title:  "Meta CarParks"
date:   2024-08-14 11:15:45 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---
# Meta CarParks was my A-level computer science project which recieved an A*. 

## Meta Carparks Inc.

Meta Carparks Inc. is an expanding, extended stay airport car parking corporation that currently uses a paper-based, pay-and-display system. Typically, customers stay in the car park for 7-14 days. Meta would like to extend their services to commuters who may need a place to park for most of the day. 

### Current System Challenges

- **Manual Monitoring**: The current system requires a parking warden to patrol the car park to find vehicles without displayed or expired tickets. This requires 24/7 monitoring.
- **Safety Concerns**: Wardens often receive abusive comments and sometimes get hurt while disputing fines.
- **Long Hours**: Wardens have long working hours and must work all day.

### Requirements for the New System

Meta Carparks Inc. has requested a fully digitalized system that eliminates the need for wardens and avoids the use of paper or ink for creating tickets. The new system should provide a contactless experience, which is particularly relevant due to the recent Covid-19 outbreak.

### Proposed Solution

I am going to create a full-stack system that is fully computerized and automated to provide a hands-free experience. The system will include the following features:

- **User Accounts**: Customers can create an account and log in via the web to prepay for car parking.
- **Contact-Free Payment**: Payments cannot be made at the car park, ensuring a contact-free experience.
- **Data Storage**: The system will store data even after it has been shut down at the end of the day.
- **User-Friendly Design**: The system will be modern and easy to use, accessible via the internet. The design must be self-explanatory to prevent customer confusion when purchasing tickets.

### Technical Specifications

- **Camera Integration**: The system will use cameras with object recognition software to identify number plates at the entry and exit points.
- **Automated Barriers**: Cameras will be connected to a computer that processes the information, checking the database for number plate validity. If the information is correct, an Arduino will send a signal to open the barriers. If the information is invalid, the barriers will not open.
- **Centralized Server**: A centralized server will store all user and vehicle data.
- **Management System**: A management system will be required to check for issues in the database. This will include tools for searching the database, inserting, deleting, and updating records.

## What I created:

